---
author: Kent Chiu
published: true
layout: post
title: "Phonics 101"
date: 2011-10-17
comments: true
external-url:
sharing: true
footer: true
categories:
  - english
---



Letter Sounds
=============

Consonant Sounds
----------------

Sometimes the vowel u takes upon itself the consonant sound of w, as in
quick or suave. This is usually the case when q is followed by u, as in
quiet and quaint.

When y is not acting as a vowel, it is a consonant. Most consonants have
only one sound, but a few have multiple sounds. For instance, c can make
both the /k/ and the /s/ sound.

Vowel Sounds
------------

The vowels are a, e, i, o, and u.

Each vowel has two sounds: a long sound and a short sound. The long
sound is the same as its name.

可先將所有的弱化的母音唸成/ə/

There is both a long and short sound to “oo”. The long sound appears as
in the words boo, food, smooth, and moose.

這個跟mind map版的規則有衝突，mind
map版的說oo只有後面接d或k時發短音，其他發長音

### Substitutes

y → i

w → u (只在a,e,o後)

can be as a u when following a,e,o , but how to pronounce aw,ew,ow (au,
eu, ou)

Irregular Vowels
================

Sometimes, the basic rules of phonics do not apply. Each of these
instances must be memorized. Common examples include, but are not
limited, to:

-   IGH as in “high” or “sight”
-   -NG as in “sing,” “song,” “sung”
-   OST as in “most” (but not “lost” or “cost”) uses the long sound
    instead of the normal short sound.
-   OW has two different sounds as in “low” and “cow.” (or, “sow” and
    “sow.”)
-   ED has three different sounds as in “lifted,” “played,” and “walked”
-   OI does not follow the two vowels rule, e.g., “moist” or “boil.”
-   Double O has two different sounds, as in “book” and “loose.”
-   OUS as in “nervous.”
-   AU as in “fault” or “haul.”
-   -SION, -TION, and -CION are all pronounced “shun.”
-   OUGH has at least seven different sounds, as in “bough,” “cough,”
    “hough,” “tough,” “thorough,” “thought,” and “through.”

accented
========

When a word has more than one syllable, one of the syllables is always a
little louder than the others. The syllable with the louder stress is
the accented syllable. The unstressed syllable usually takes the schwa
sound.

It may seem that the placement of accents in words is often random or
accidental, but these are some rules that usually work.

1.  Accents are often on the first syllable. Examples: ba'/sic,
    pro'/gram.
2.  In words that have suffixes or prefixes, the accent is usually on
    the main root word. Examples: box'/es, un/tie'.
3.  If de-, re-, ex-, in-, po-, pro-, or a- is the first syllable in a
    word, it is usually not accented. Examples: de/lay', ex/plore'.
4.  Two vowel letters together in the last syllable of a word often
    indicates an accented last syllable. Examples: com/plain',
    con/ceal'.
5.  When there are two like consonant letters within a word, the
    syllable before the double consonants is usually accented. Examples:
    be/gin'/ner, let'/ter.
6.  The accent is usually on the syllable before the suffixes -ion, ity,
    -ic, -ical, -ian, -ial, or -ious, and on the second syllable before
    the suffix -ate. Examples: af/fec/ta'/tion, dif/fer/en'/ti/ate.
7.  In words of three or more syllables, one of the first two syllables
    is usually accented. Examples: ac'/ci/dent, de/ter'/mine.

找出重音節的通則(適用大多數狀況)，只能用強記的

Sight Words
===========

Many words do not follow these rules, and are called **sight words**.
Because they do not follow the normal rules, these must be memorized.
Examples include *the*, *are*, and *you*. They are also sometimes called
'irregular words' or 'outlaw words'.

Here are some more examples:

-   *the*, *to*, *do*, and *who* — These should have long vowel sounds
    because they are open syllables, like *me* and *go*.
-   *what*, *was*, and *whom* — These should have short vowel sounds
    because they are closed syllables, like *sat* and *cot*.
-   *again*, *against*, *says* and *said* — These should have long *a*
    sounds because of the *ai* vowel combination, like *say* and *pain*.
-   *been* — This should have a long *e* sound, like *seen*.

In many words, the *o* says /short u/ instead of /short o/ or /long o/,
as in *of*, *from*, *son*, *month*, *front*, *some*, *love*, *other*,
*money*, and *among*.

最後，還有一點，滿令人失望的就是，採用Phonics在聽音拼讀時，會遇到一個很大的麻煩，就是如果母音在輕音節時會弱化，所以
a,e,i,o,u聽起來是差不多的，很用聽的方式去辨識，但是若是懂得字源分析的概念，這樣就能比較接近*會唸就會拼字的境界*。

