---
author: Kent Chiu
published: true
layout: post
title: "Syllable 101"
date: 2011-10-17
comments: true
external-url:
sharing: true
footer: true
categories:
  - english
---

# Table of contents
{:.no_toc}

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}

----------------------------------------------------------------



Syllable的一個單字在發音上的基本單位，這個筆記是在說明在劃分音節上的一些方式以及該注意的地方

this article come from
[here](http://www.cla.calpoly.edu/~jrubba/phon/syllables.html#sum "http://www.cla.calpoly.edu/~jrubba/phon/syllables.html#sum")
mainly. I amended (added, highlighted, removed, commented)some content
for my study propose.

Parts
=====

Syllables have internal structure: they can be divided into parts. The
parts are onset and rhyme; within the rhyme we find the nucleus and
coda. Not all syllables have all parts; the smallest possible syllable
contains a nucleus only. A syllable may or may not have an onset and a
coda.

**Onset**: the beginning sounds of the syllable; the ones preceding the
nucleus. **These are always consonants** in English. The nucleus is a
**vowel** in most cases, although the consonants **[ r ], [ l ], [ m ],
[ n ]**, and the velar nasal (the **'ng'** sound) can also be the
nucleus of a syllable.

**Rhyme** (or **rime**): the rest of the syllable, after the onset (the
underlined portions of the words above). The rhyme can also be divided
up:

**Rhyme = nucleus** + **coda**

The nucleus, as the term suggests, is the core or essential part of a
syllable. A nucleus must be present in order for a syllable to be
present. Syllable nuclei are most often highly 'sonorant' or resonant
sounds, that can be relatively loud and carry a clear pitch level. In
English and most other languages, most syllable nuclei are vowels. In
English, in certain cases, the liquids [ l r ] and nasals [ m n ] and
the velar nasal usually spelled 'ng' can also be syllable nuclei.\
  

The syllable structure analysis of the words 'read', 'flop',  'strap'
and 'window' are as follows (IPA symbols are used to show the sounds in
the word/syllable):


```
read = one syllable
Onset = [ r ]
Rhyme = [ id ]      (within the rhyme:)
     Nucleus = [ i ]
     Coda   = [ d ]

flop = one syllable
Onset = [ f l ]
Rhyme  = [ a p ]
    Nucleus  =  [ a ]
    Coda  =  [ p ]

```

window = 2 syllables


```
First syllable:  [wIn]
Onset  = [ w ]
Rhyme  = [ I n ]
    Nucleus = [ I ]
    Coda  = [ n ]

Second syllable: [ d o ]
Onset = [ d ]
Rhyme = [ o ]
    Nucleus = [ o ]
(This syllable has no coda)

```

'[]'裡的是IPA的音標，不是英文字母，所以拆成components是以發音(音標)為準，不是以字母

  Parts       Description                                                        Optionality
  ----------- ------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------
  Onset       Initial segment of a syllable                                      Optional
  Rhyme       Core of a syllable, consisting of a nucleus and coda (see below)   Obligatory
  – Nucleus   Central segment of a syllable                                      Obligatory
  – Coda      Closing segment of a syllable                                      Optional

#### examples

In the following words, the onset is in bold; the rhyme is underlined.

**r***ead* \
 **fl***op* \
 **str***ap* \

If a word contains more than one syllable, each syllable will have the
usual syllable parts:

**w***in*.**d***ow* \
 **t***o*.**m***a*.**t***o* \
 **pr***e*.**p***os*.**t***e*.**r***ous* \
 **f***un*.**d***a*.**m***en*.**t***al*

onset 可能是一至多個**子音**字母組成

\<box left 45% round green\>


```
       S
    /     \
    O      R
   / \     /  \
  |   |    N   C
  |   |    |   |
[ f   l    a   p ]

```

\</box\> \<box right 45% round green\>

-   'S' = 'syllable'
-   'O' = 'onset';
-   'R' = 'rhyme';
-   'N' = 'nucleus';
-   'C' = 'coda'.

\</box\>

r l m n
=======

The English liquids [ r l ] and the nasals [ m n ] can be the nuclei of
syllables under certain conditions. **[ r ] can be a nucleus as easily
as a vowel, in any position**: the words 'bird', 'word', 'her', 'fur',
the first syllable of 'perceive' and 'surname' and the final syllables
of 'mother', 'actor' (in casual pronunciation) all have [ r ] as the
nucleus; in other words, there is no vowel in the pronunciation of these
syllables, even though they have one in the spelling.

[ l ] and the nasals [ m n ] become syllable nuclei when they follow an
**alveolar consonant** in the **last syllable** of a word. This happens
in the relaxed or casual rather than very formal articulation of the
word. Compare casual vs. formal pronunciations of 'button', 'bottle',
'bottom'.

When one of these sounds is a syllable nucleus, this is shown in
transcription by putting a very short vertical line under the IPA symbol

[alveolar
consonant](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/alveolar%20consonant "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/alveolar consonant"):齒槽音?
看得懂才有鬼

Counting Syllables
------------------

To find the number of syllables in a word, use the following steps:

1.  Count the vowels in the word.
2.  Subtract any silent vowels, (like the silent *e* at the end of a
    word, or the second vowel when two vowels are together in a
    syllabl.e)
3.  Subtract one vowel from every
    [diphthong](http://wiki.kent-chiu.com/doku.php?id=english:diphthongs "english:diphthongs")
    (diphthongs only count as one vowel sound.)
4.  The number of vowels sounds left is the same as the number of
    syllables.

The number of syllables that you hear when you pronounce a word is the
same as the number of vowels sounds heard. For example:

-   The word *came* has 2 vowels, but the *e* is silent, leaving one
    vowel sound andone syllable.
-   The word *outside* has 4 vowels, but the *e* is silent and the *ou*
    is a diphthong which counts as only one sound, so this word has only
    two vowel sounds and therefore, two syllables.

Six Kinds of Syllables
----------------------

There are six different kinds of syllables in English:

Uinsg the anacronym **C.L.O.V.E.R** for the 6 main rules.

#### C–cvc/

C–cvc/–Closed syllables have a short vowel with 1 to 3 consonants
following it. “When a vowel is closed by a consonant door, it says its
short sound.” Examples are: rob/in, cab/in, nap/kin, kit/ten, hun/dred.

#### L–/cLE

L–/cLE–Consonant LE syllables are found at the end of a word and are
divided before the consonant that comes before the LE. Use a silly
phrase that helps to remember this rule: ”-le in little BEFORE the
BEFORE.” Examples are: no/ble, jun/gle, mar/ble

#### O–cv/

O–cv/–Open syllables have a vowel hanging open at the end of a syllable.
The vowel usually has a long sound. “When a vowel is left open, it says
its own name.” Examples are: mo/ment, va/ca/tion.

#### V–cvvc/ or cv/vc

V–cvvc/ or cv/vc–Double vowels can be a usual digraph, such as ai, ay,
ea, ee, oa, ow, oo, oi, oy, ou, ie, and ei, which is not divided and the
first vowel has a long sound. Double vowels that are not a usual
combination, **such as ia or eu, can be divided between the two vowels**
to make a multisyllable word, such as di-al or mu-se-um.

#### E–cvce

E–cvce–Silent e syllables can come in the middle of a word, but are
usually found at the end of a word. Often the vowel preceding the silent
e has a long sound, although no English word ends with the letter v, so
a silent e that follows the “v” may or may not affect the preceding
vowel. Examples are: in/vite, home/sick, in/ten/sive.

#### R–cvr

R–cvr–R-controlled syllables have a vowel followed by an r and can be
found in any syllable of a word. While ar and or have distinctive
sounds, any vowel followed by an r can be pronounced /ur/. Examples are:
car/pet, fur/ther/more, thir/sty.

I usually take a lesson or two to introduce the concept of syllable
division and give an overview of the syllable types. Then I teach
in-depth and have students practice each rule until mastered and
automatic, both in reading and spelling. I usually use the following
sequence for the in-depth practice–Compounds; Closed; Introduce or
review common suffixes, such as -ed, -ing, -tion, -ness, -ment; Silent
e; Open; Consonant-LE; R-Controlled; and Double Vowels.

Dividing Words Into Syllables
-----------------------------

#### Divide between two middle consonants.

Split up words that have two middle consonants, unless the doubled
consonant is part of a syllable that is a base word. Then try the short
sound for the vowel in the first syllable. This rule does not apply if
the two consonants form a digraph such as ch, **tch**, ph, sh, or th.
The digraphs can't be separated.

For example:

hap/pen, bas/ket, let/ter, sup/per, din/ner, and Den/nis. The only
exceptions are the consonant digraphs. Never split up consonant digraphs
as they really represent only one sound. The exceptions are “th”, “sh”,
“ph”, “th”, “ch”, and “wh”.

tell-er.

tell is a base word.

#### Usually divide before a single middle consonant.

When there is only one syllable, you usually divide in front of it, as
in:

“o/pen”, “i/tem”, “e/vil”, and “re/port”. The only exceptions are those
times when the first syllable has an obvious [short
sound](http://wiki.kent-chiu.com/doku.php?id=english:short-vowels "english:short-vowels"),
as in “cab/in”.

When only one consonant appears between two vowels, divide the word
before the consonant. The try the long sound of the first vowel. This
works about 55% of the time. If a recognizable word is not formed using
the long sound, divide the word after the con-sonant and try the short
sound for the first syllable. This works about 45% of the time.

#### Divide off any compound words, prefixes, suffixes and roots which have vowel sounds.

Split off the parts of compound words like “sports/car” and
“house/boat”. Divide off prefixes such at “un/happy”, “pre/paid”, or
“re/write”. Also divide off suffixes as in the words “farm/er”,
“teach/er”, “hope/less” and “care/ful”. In the word “stop/ping”, the
suffix is actually ”-ping” because this word follows the rule that when
you add ”-ing” to a word with one syllable, you double the last
consonant and add the ”-ing”.

For example: dis-arm, an-ti-dote, ship-ment, hope-ful-ly, mand-a-ble….

Exceptions: Sometimes, if the suffix starts with a vowel, a letter or
two from the base word goes with the suffix:fa-mouns, cu-bic, won-drous.

Endings such as ing, er, est, and ed often form separate syllables. The
remaining portion of the word is a root word. the suffix is ”-er”, ”-ed”
or “ing”, this only happens if you have doubled the consonant when
adding the suffix, e.g: hop-ing, miss-ing BUT hop-ping

#### Keep the "r"-control vowels (ar, er, ir, or, and ur) in the same syllable.

#### Keep the consonant-"le" sounds (ble, cle, dle, fle, gle, and ple) in the same syllable.

These syllables have the schwa sound between the consonant and the “le”.
The schwa sound sounds like a nasal short u.

For example, cra-dle.

#### Never break apart vowel diagraphs or diphthongs such as ai, ay, ea, ee, oa, ow, oo, oi, oy, ou, ie, and ei.

Unbreaking parts : ai, ay, ea, ee, oa, ow, oo, oi, oy, ou, ie, and ei

But NOT includes : ia,eu

分音節（Divide the syllables）：

要訣：從字尾往字首找，在每個母音之前找一個子音，在此子音前斷開。
範例：su -per -mar-ket in -ter -na -ti –on –nal na-me

注意：雙母音/複合母音，視為「一個」母音，若兩個獨立母音相逢，視為其中包含一個「空子音」，直接斷開。若有「共用子音」的音節，則子音要寫兩次。

標重音（Put the stress）
========================

author :
[肥豆老爹說說話](http://blog.nownews.com/richbean/textview.php?file=127500 "http://blog.nownews.com/richbean/textview.php?file=127500")

Rules：

-   單音節單字，唯一母音即重音。
-   雙音節單字：
    1.  若是「動詞/介系詞」或「動詞衍生字」，則重音大多在「第二音節」。
    2.  若是「名詞/形容詞/副詞/連接詞」，則重音大多在「第一音節」。
    3.  例外字則單獨記憶，其數量很少。

e.g. de'sert(n)-點心、un'happy(a)-不快樂的、cor'rect(a)-正確的。

-   三音節以上單字：
    1.  若是「希臘式拼音」，則**重音大多在「倒數第三音節」；英文大多數是這樣的字。**
    2.  若是「羅馬/拉丁式拼音」，則重音大多在「倒數第二音節」；少數「外來語」是這樣的字。

e.g.

#### Greek

con-ver-'sa-ti-on \
 u-ni-'ver-si-ty \
 trans-'la-ti-on \
 'te-le-phone \

#### Roman

ba-'na-na \
 Mi-'a-mi \
 To-'ran-to \
 e-lec-'tro-nic \
 Mer-'cu-ry \
 A-'pol-lo \

#### French

fi-'an-cee

### 範例

#### 單音節

hat \
 bed \
 guess \
 quick \
 mop

#### 雙音節

##### 「動詞/介系詞」或「動詞衍生字」

at-'tack \
 at-'tack-tive \
 at-'tac-king \
 de-'part-ment

##### 「名詞/形容詞/副詞/連接詞」

'Cha-os \
 'hap-py \
 'may-be \
 'af-ter \
 'there-fore

##### 例外字

be-'fore

#### 多音節

'na -ti-on \
 'bad-min-ton \
 Ca-li-'for-ni-a \
 phi-'lo-so-phy

the words that is not easy apply to rule at first sight
=======================================================

bach⋅e⋅lor 為什麼常會常到斷音節只斷在e

> 為什麼常會常到斷音節只斷在e
>
> > 因為ch不可分割，而or前面要有子音

Mex⋅i⋅co

> 為什麼是Mex⋅i⋅co而不是Me⋅xi⋅co
>
> > 因為x通常會被放在音節後，而不是之前，比如說 ex⋅am⋅ple

gro⋅cer⋅y

> 為什麼是gro⋅cer⋅y而不是gro⋅ce⋅ry\
>  因為r control的，所以er不可分割

ret⋅ro⋅spect

> ret⋅ro⋅spect → 這樣斷的話，ret的e發短母音/ɛ/ → 正確的發音\
>  re⋅tro⋅spect → 這樣斷的話，ret的e發長母音/i/ → 不正確的發音

寫在後面
========

其實在語言學的音節劃分上，有許多學說，所以，劃分的方式也各自不同，而且，有時，音節的畫分，可能與日常的發音有所不同，所以，也有人主張，不要特音的去劃分音節

這裡有一篇在討論劃分音節的文章，相當的不錯
[http://forums.eslcafe.com/teacher/viewtopic.php?t=4618](http://forums.eslcafe.com/teacher/viewtopic.php?t=4618 "http://forums.eslcafe.com/teacher/viewtopic.php?t=4618")

#### how syllables are separated and pronounced?

from keit:

Hello everyone, Well, I am currently learning about the pronunciation of
english words by looking them up in the dictionary. The thing that still
confuse me is that how to separate the syllables in a word. For example,
'temperature' do you pronounce it as tem-puh-ruh-chuh or
tem-puhr-uh-chuh. 'January' do you pronounce it as Jan-u-eh-re or
Jan-nu-eh-re. Thanks for your help.

> from Buddhaheart\
>  Kiet has touched on a very controversial and challenging aspect of
> linguistics called phonology. In contemporary linguistics many
> theories are still being considered, constructed and developed. This
> is definitely not for beginners of English.\
>  \
>  To answer Kiet's query, the first question you have to ask youself is
> what a syllable is. There are as many theories (Sonority Principle,
> Chest\
>  Pulse Formation & so on) as questions. It seems there is no one
> definition that all phoneticians or phonologists could agree on.\
>  \
>  The second question is how a multi-syllable word is phonologically
> divided into its components. Although there're many general rules we
> teach students how to do that, there're just as many exceptions.
> Syllabification seems to be a taunting task.\
>  \
>  We then have to talk about MOP (Maximal Onsets Theory or Principle).
> English phonotactics, phonological rules, epenthesis, ambisyllabicity,
> the concept of the “privilege of occurrence”. silent 'e' syllable and
> so on.\
>  \
>  Some of the respondents have offered many practical suggestions and
> help. I hereby offer mine from my own perspective.\
>  \
>  We'll just look at the word “temperature” only as an example. Just by
> counting the number of vowels or semi-vowels in the word
> “temperature”, we think we have a 5 or less syllabic word. If you
> recognize the fact that the last 4 letters (ture) in the word make it
> a WR-ME (Vowel R-Magic- E) syllable type, you know the ‘e’ is silent.
> We therefore left with 4 syllables.\
>  \
>  Invoking a general phonological rule of splitting syllables between 2
> consecutive consonants, we arrive at the 1st tentative syllable,
> namely “tem”. Relying on the **MOP**, we will pair the 2nd ‘e’ with
> ‘p’, the ‘a’ with ‘r’ and hence we arrive at “tem-pe-ra-ture”. Using
> your terminology, we will transcribe the word as “tem-puh-ruh-chuh”.
> This is your 1st version I think. I'm not sure about the 'u' sound
> though.\
>  \
>  Invoking the concept of the **“privilege of occurrence”**, ﻿the vowel
> letter 'a' in the word can stand alone as a syllable. This syllable is
> uttered with a schwa sound as it is not stressed. The 2nd syllable
> becomes 'per' and this does not violate any phonotactics as the 'er'
> may be pronounced as a rhotic schwa. We now arrive at the word's
> syllabification as “tem-per-a-ture.” This is similar to your 2nd
> version.\
>  \
>  So what is the verdict? I believe both versions are acceptable as
> they do appear in various dictionaries we use here. I personally favor
> the 2nd.\

轉載另一篇ptt的討論文
=====================


```
=========================

 作者  pobo (全新的生活)                                      看板  Eng-Class
 標題  [發音] 音節的用法
 時間  Thu Nov 30 08:02:23 2006
───────────────────────────────────────


: 請問一下音節的定義是什麼?
          ^^^^^^^^^如下。
: 還有音節的發音,例如:dragon是兩個音節drag-on http://kuso.cc/0XDQ
: 不看發音我會念(死背的),但是要如何根據音節來發音呢?
                                       ^^^音標
: dragon發音是"追根",但是我根據音節卻是發"追格盎"為什麼會這樣呢?
                           ^^^^^^^其實你要說的是「根據音標」
: 說來慚愧我真的對音節一點概念也沒有,懇請各位板友不吝賜教
: 謝謝.
「音節」(syllable)跟「音標(符號)」(phonic symbol/alphabet)是不同的。
drag-on這是音標的寫法。
gra-gon這是音節的寫法。

音節是由音素(phoneme)組成。音素是發音的最小單位。
音素是發音的元素，的文字記法就是「音標」。
如/p/、/t/、/a/、/o/這些字母單獨的發音就是音素，
但寫成音標就會有它另外的寫法。
(看你用的是什麼音標，或是看它在字彙裏怎麼發音)

```

